Hello, this is Jerremy creech, I am a manager at Cisco's system.
I am working inside the product developpement for the Cisco's networking
accademy program And you are listening to the first of a serie of podcast
introducing the internet of everithing, or, as we call it, the IOE.
This podcast serie is a companion to the Cisco's networking academy
introduction to the IOE course and today we will be answering the question
"What is the IOE".

My guest today are Dane Albargetty, you might know him from danecourses.com. He
is also a cheap contributor inside the content developpement for the networking
accademy program ad also joining us is Rodrigo odriono Technologist
extraordinary and also key contributor to a lot of the activity developpement
and content developpement inside of the networking academy program as well.
And then also joining us from the Cartel of northies is Bernadette O'Brian,
Networking academy instructor and also contributor to networking academy
developpement and the content we create.
And the last and certenely not least is BOB Fishon also a networking academy
instrucor, award winning instructor in canada. Also a Cisco Press author.

So as we talked about the evolution of internet we witnessed a number of
different distinct phases. Among these phases is connectivity starting int he
late 60's and that's when, you know, we were just starting to get disparate
cmputing system connected together just for the basic sharing of information.
From there it kind of transitionned into a system of exchange with the network
economy, where thing became more transactional. We saw the rise of e-commerce
and then, more recently we've seen the collaborative experience in the internet
where getting the right people doing the right thing together at the right
time, you know, all empowered and facilate by the internet, but most recent is
the current tranistion that's taking place with the internet of everything, the
IOE. And so, Rodrigo, can you tell me what is the IOE ?

So, I'm just gonna give you an exemple :
Let's say you need to buy a pair of shoes for someone that you love and so you
get on your phone and you give im a call and of course this is a video call.
This is not the 1960's anymore. So you get on your phone, you place the video
call and you have a little conversation trying to learn a litle more about what
kind of shoes the person like right ? So, once you know that you get in your
car and you realize that the mall close-by hase the perfect store for you to
buy that pair of shoes. So you push the address of the mall into your GPS and
you just go to that mall. Your car ,because of the GPS, it knows where it-s
close to the mall and when it approches the mall it is able to talk to the
computer at the mall handling the parking lot and ask for a parking spot. When
comming in a mall, I need a parking spot. The mall computer handeling the
parking lot has informations of course on the parking lot what's taken and
what's available, ut it also knows about the weather, it knows about the city,
it knows about what time it is, it knows that it's about to get a rush hour,
And it knows also that in that specific city, the north portion of the city get
really bad when it's rush hour and it's about to rain. So the computer picks up
a free parking spot toward the south side of that mall to make it easyer for
you to leave the mall. So the computer get's that information through your gps
and now you can safefully navigate to what is currently at that specific
moement, the best parking spot in the mall that's available to you. This is the
IOE, becaus eif you think about it, you placed the call to an other person,
wich is an interaction between two people : People to people. Because of that,
you entered an address into you GPS in your car, this is an interaction between
a person and a machine, right it's a people to machine type of interaction. As
the mall computer was making a call of the best parking spot for you, it needed
to rely on a bunch of data on the weather, on the city itself, on the parking
spot that were actually open for use. So that's the data, right? You're using
the data to do that. And this is all possible because it relies on
comunications protocols and applications and all kinds of structures details
that are going on the background. That's what we call the process. So this is
the long answers, I used kind of an exemple, but that's the IOE. That's exactly
a way to interact to connect people, things processus and data.

Sounds awefully complex, sounds complex, sounds like there is a lot of
interactions, there is a lot of things going on. it makes me wonder, I mean,
part of value of the internet right now is just it's the ubiquity of it. And so
It kind of make me wonder as we talk about the internet of Everithing, while
you, Rodrigo, you're really lining out kind of , you know , the opportunity or
the potential of it, you know, I find myself wondering, you know, how big of a
deal is it  really ? You know bob inside of the things that you've been
researching, the things that you enderstand, you know, what can you land in an
answer to that question of how big of a deal is the internet of Everithing ?

Well, I my humble opinion, it's a mass of big deal, you knwo when we think of
the internet of everything, I think right now, we're at the very tip of an
iceberg or at like, the beginning of an avalanche. And I think, back to the
early 90's when I remember seeing on the news they where talking about this
thing called the internet and something called the world wide  web and you know
, and we'd be able to communicate with people around the world and easily and
such and I remember at the time thinking "Waw ! this is gonna really cool but
how big is it going to get ?", And you know, within a matter of years, no five
year later, ten years later, like the internet has now become something that we
all use and think as something we should have available to us. The UN say that
the internet is now something that it's a vital right for humans to have. ANd
you know, consider as well like cellphones or phones 30 the years ago you
just talked to people and 15 years ago cellphones you could text. But take what
your smartphone can do now. You know, it's, it can connect all kinds of things,
you can research all kind of things, it connect to your car, it connect to
like, at home I have a thermostat where it's controlled, I can control it with
my phone. It's all connected ! Companies use , you know use the, manage their
energy more efficiently as well, like, ?helium? ventilation systems in buildings
before ?all pneumatic? . But now it's all automated and connected to the
networks, so a company can adjust, you know, temperatur more efficiently, they
can close light more efficiently and so on so forth

Well I recognise what you are talking about, I mean like lot of things
beeing connected. A question I find myself asking as the release the internet of
Everithing, you know, while i've recogniezed the value and the savings that I
have personnaly benefited from the internet in the past phases of the internet.
You know as I think of the internet of Everything, i'm looking for where dos it
add value to my life, how does it improve my life, our lives, everybody's
lives. Bernadette, I am wondering if you know kind of based of the things that
you've been researching as well and conducting analysis against. Where are you
finding that the internet of everything adds value ?

The first thing that comes to minds that I've been looking at is solving health
problems. There are millions of people in the world who lack access to
specialist. Using new technologies and telehealth and cloud, we could actually
put specialist in front of those peaople and they can remoteley connect to
specialist and doctors using Network medical devices and get opinions and so
on.
Another area is improving farming and idrigation, you know to help feed the
world. monitoring animals and using sensors to provide the apropriate irigation
and conserve water.
And one of the big areas is that as of now more than half of the world's
population lives in our near major urban areas. As this increases it's going to
cause an increadible stress on cities on their infrastructure, on their
services. and a great exemple is when governements incorporates the internet of
everything technology to deal with these challenges that are faced by cities.
Barcelona is that has embraced this internet of everithing by becoming a smart
connected city and in the course there is a great video about barcelona showing
how they have become a smart city and how that is improving the life of its
citizens. SOlutions such as energy efficient lightening and it's not only just
lighting but it has sensors that senses motions around it so that it can sense
traffic and this really reduces crime  by increasing the intensity of light as
it noticies motions. They have also implemented parking censor so that connect
to your smartphone so that people can park more afficiently because it is
beeing found that 30% congestion is caused by people driving around looking for
parking spot.

That's amazing, I don't know how many time I've found myself driving in
circles.
I know, I'm doing it all the time. The other thing I really like is that they
have implemented sensors on garbage cans so that they send a signal whn they're
full, so we don't have to waste services picking up the garbage, they have
smart transportations, smart bus stops, so you can go to the bus stop and say
"Yea, I'm looking for/ When is my bus going to get here", click on the screen
and while you're waiting you can find out about entertainement in the area. And
Wifi is available in the city even in the subway. So, you know, this has really
made Barcelona a very wonderful place to live

So it's like you had all these services that used to be kind of isolated
(insulated ?) provided in sideloads, you know, you had your tracers, you had, you
know, you had street lighting, you had your wifi you had your transportations
services. But now rather than all those things kind of working in sideloads,
they're all kind of comming together, they're presempting some ?inovation?.
It's more of an unified service provided by the city. That's more relevent to
me and what I'm doing as an inividual inside of the city. It's like it's custom
taillored for me. it's like, you know, the trash service is organized around my
schedule, the lighting it's organised around my schedule, transportation,
organized around my schedule. Something very very different. It's not me as
individual needing to adapt to the city services shedules, but it's almost like
the city is providing a much, more personnalized service organized around me
but, so, at the same time it's also more effcicient.You know, they're not using
energy, they're not using resources where they don't need to be used. As we
talked about this innerconnection of everything, you know, it's really easy for
me to think abour the sideloads and how to make think work, how to connect
things to provide a certain service. You know, how to get the trash service
running by itself, how to get the transportation running by itself. But as we
talk about inner connecting all of these things, you know, that, to me is what
we eluded to earlier in the call. it's just, it 's impressive ?level? of
complexity, with a lot of details that go into it. And so I'm wondering as we
look at this IOE opportunity, you know, how do we handle challenges, What are
the attributes and the caracteristics. You know, the ?ideal?, if you will,
that give us kind of control over how we implement IOE solutions. You know,
What are the, how do we make it tengible so that we can be in controlle of it
and implement it. And dane, I am wondering if you can come in on that kind of
some of your experience just in the round of networking.

The curiculum, the internet of everything talks about 4 things in particular
and that is People that are involved, the processes, the data and the things.
So it's much bigger than just the things.

So yea, those are the four things rodrigo kind of refered to as well. So inside
of the course it explicitely calls out : People, processes, data and things as
kind of the foundational elements componnent or pillars if you will of the IOE.
Bernadette, can you in a little bit on the people aspect, the people pillar on
the IOE.

Sure, jerry, my thing (thinking ?) it's because the people who ultimately will
take all this information that's beeing drive from the interation betwen the
other pillars wich are processes, data and things. And they'll make and form
decisions that will improve their lives or the lives of others. It's really
people that provide the intelligence and the inside to take all of that
information, and there is a lot of it out there that  were exposed to and make
an usefull solution. You know oneof the things that i've been looking at, I
found fascionating is all of there wearable sensors that wille allow us to
acess real time about our helth. ANd that allows us to make a decision about
how we'll be going to do things that day. Should I have my work out ? Should I
avoid that donut ? and much more serious things as well of course, we can use
those to deal with serious illness and like diabetus and heart diseases.

Yea, listening to you talk abot people it, I recall a  quote from John
chambers, where, you know, he was asked something effective, what is the IOE
about ? his response , this is not about thecnology at all, but it's about how
we change peoples lives. So it seems like, you know, the IOE is really routed
first in , you know, where is that value, where is that social impact or
benefit that comes as a result of our ability to connect all these desparate
things, connecting the unconnected, if you will. But i seems like the people
beeing served is one aspect, but then, you know, again rodrigo had eluded to
processes and you know we've definitely talked about it a little bit in the
context of this conversation and, you know processes beeing called out by cisco
and the definition of IOE is one of those core pillars. Describe that a little
bit for me to end, You know, what is processes in this context

Processes is pretty much the thing that interconnects the people the data and
the things. The processes is the innerconnection of those three things and, in
the curiculum it defines the processes as the ability to deliver the right data
to the right person or thing, or device, at the rght time. And that's really
what the process piece is. It's how that data in the internet of everything,
how it flows, how it's beeing utilizes. The processes are the integration
piece, they facilitate an intergration between people wich the curiculum
defines as a people to peolpe connection, so people exchanging data with other
people wheter it's through a social networking, applications over the internet
or something like that and then machine to people, so people recieving real
time data over the internet to their smrtphone or their smartwatch or some type
of device and then also machine to machine, so we have machines, we have smart
devices, we havesmart sensor in the home, we have smart sensor in the field, in
industie, in retail, commercial uses and those devices are picking up
information that wasn't capable before, but today, we do have the capabilities,
with the advance technologies, the advances in computers, the advances in the
amount of storage of data that we can do, with the fact that the internet is
now so much more expensive with cloud computing. SO those connections, machne
to machinr, machine to people, and people to people are more relevent today,
given that this is the right time-place because our technology has advanced so
far that we can now, we can take in this data from everywhere and we can
process it, we can analyze it. SO the process is really, that's what it does,
it brings the people, the data and the things together

So, as we talked about the internet of everything and people beeing the
ultimate beneficiairy of the opportunity and what it represents and they are
realizing those benefits through new processes that we're able to take
advantage of the inforation that is now available. SO as we talked about
information, I've heard the term data, we talked about the data as one of these
pillars and the also I heard earlier the term big data in that context if you
guys could come and just a little bit on what is data in the context of IOE and
why is it such a ig deal

I can take that one, Jeremey, it's my favorite. Right so, this is actually a
very important point that you make Jeremy, when it come to this pillar, to the
data pillar it's so much data that it's even hard to wrap your ?head? around
right ? You see, the idea is that if you have the data that its has enough
volume, wich you mentioned it has enough velocity, that you also mentionned,
and it all types of data where we call the variaty. This is conssidered to be
the big data, if we go back, just to explain a little bit the ??? of the big
data, it says the volume amount of data,if you're trying, if you're talking
about looking at a specific event, you're monitoring an event, such as the
weather, it's a lot of informations, so the volume of the data is really high,
you have a lot of data to take care of, to process, right ? it's a lot of data
comming at you very high speed so you have to be able to handle that. Network
itself has to be hable to handle that, and when I say the network I'm
talking about routers, I'm talking about the layer to switches, yea, I'm
talking about the firewalls, I'm talking about the entire network really as a
whole has to be able to process and has to be able to handle all this data that
is coming at you very fast. The last V is the variety, so the data comming to
you does not necesserly has a specific type a specific way or a specific shape
right ? You can be looking at pictures, you can be looking at entries you can
be looking at text you can be looking at some log files comming from a server;
I mean, the data doesn't really, does not necesserly comes at ou in a specific
form so this is what (why?) we mean by saying the variaty of this data. I'm
thinking 2012 an organisation online even added a fourth V with their calling
Veracity.
I've never heard that term before, I haven't  heard veracity before, so in
listening wath you describe it's essencially the thrust ???? of the big data
That's right
So we talked about people, the beneficiaries of the IOE at the same time
contributors and producers as well as consumers inside of it. We've talked
about how processes is it's changes in process and process inside of the IOE
that makes it happen. And we've talked about data is kind of a key resource in
what is happening, what process can take advantage of. In a conversation around
data, you know, we're talking about a lot of data, a lot of information and
we've commented a few times on like sensors and things when we're talking about
things here, and we're talking about the internet of things and we talked about
how the internet of everithing will take advantage of the internet of things.
What are things cause it sounds like we're talking about , you know, you're
talking about sensors that you put into the ground, you know, what are things

I can answer that, Jeremy, things have been around for a while, you know,
you've already mentionned iPad and smartphones and computers. We all know that
that connects, it's not something new. But what we're talking about here when
we say the internet of things it's about the stuff that we didn't connect
before it's connecting the unconnected and making them accessible over a
network. So the internet of things , and I should mention that a lot of people
mistake , they say the internet of everything hen they mean the internet of
things and vice-verca but the internet of things specifficaly refers to those
object that we can attach sensors to and we can collect real time data and make
decisions based on that.
So you're talking about, like, my coffee cup sitting right here ?
this is gonna get connected ?
You can if you want to, if you want to measure the temperature and make sure
that it's too hot right now, I want my coffe cup to talk to my smartphone to
tell me when the temperature reaches a certain temperatures and that's when you
want to drink it you could do that !
Now I wanted to tell somebody else that they need to come and give me some
coffe
That's what I was gonna say, you can do even better, you can measure how much
of the coffee is left in the cup and tell your coffee maker to get you a new
pot cause you're out of coffee
that totally makes sense, I saw, I remember seeing an advertisement for a
moisture sensor that goes into a baby's diaper and it sends a tweet to a phone
that tells a
They need to change their childs diaper and that just blows my mind and it's so
that idea seems so expensive to me but I guess what we're talking about is that
this stuff isn't that expensive anymore

That's it, I don't now if you've heard of moore's law, I know we mentionned
more law in the course but moore's low basically talks about the icroprocessor
doubling in power and reducing n cost in term of how much we pay for them and
you know they make chips now that would fit on the end of your finger, it's a
sensor chip they could sense temperatur, moisture, like you said and it also
has wifi, and you know, how much do you thing you'd pay for a chip like that ?
You know initially when someone asked me that was like hundred, tow hundred
dollars, but they make them now for 99 cents. You know so these are thing that
you can attach on almost anything and you can retrieve that data to do someting
with it. And the thing that blows
So you mentionned Moor's law, it's 99cts like, say, now give it, give it.
yhea, three years and it's you know
Jow much then ?
Penies !
Znt the thing that blows me away right now is that it's estimated that only one
% of things are connected right now, there is still 99% of things that we could
connect. Not to say that we need to connect everything, but there is still a
lot of stuff that's out there that we can connect and it's been predicted by
the year 2020 that we're gonna have 50 billions devices that are connected to
the internet. Now that is in my opinion minid blowing.
This has been fantastic and I wanna thanks every body here who has provided
input and helped explain what is the internet of everything, what is this
opportunity. The internet of everything takes into account or takes advantage
of 4 key pillars people, primary beneficiaries of it facilitated by processes
that takes into account data that is generated by thingd. ANd so it's those 4
pillars people processes data and things that are kind of the key attributes or
the handholds if you will, the componnent of the internet of everything that
help us realize this value

fascinating stuff ! I'd like to thanks all of ou guys, Bernadette, Bob, dane,
rodrigo for joining me on this podcast. We hope for you guys, our audiance,
that you're intrigued and inspierd to investigate the internet of everything
and how it can change the way you work, live, play, and learn, so until next
time
Thanks for listening !
